.. _api:

##########
Public API
##########

The following are the classes that make up the public API
of :mod:`imggen`.


Sources
=======
An image data source is a class with a :meth:`Source.fill` method that
generates image data.

.. autofunction:: imggen.Source


Deterministic Pattern Sources
=============================
The following classes generate shapes, text, and other fully deterministic
patterns of image data.

.. autofunction:: imggen.Box
.. autofunction:: imggen.Gradient
.. autofunction:: imggen.Hexes
.. autofunction:: imggen.Lines
.. autofunction:: imggen.Rays
.. autofunction:: imggen.Rings
.. autofunction:: imggen.Solid
.. autofunction:: imggen.Spheres
.. autofunction:: imggen.Spot
.. autofunction:: imggen.Text
.. autofunction:: imggen.Waves


Psuedorandom Noise Sources
==========================
The following classes generate psuedorandom noise with useful characteristics
in image data.

.. autofunction:: imggen.Noise


Unit Noise
----------
Unit noise splits the image space into a grid of units, then randomly
distributes values at the positions on the grid. Image data is then
generated using an easing function that provides values for the pixels
between the positions on the grid.

.. autofunction:: imggen.UnitNoise


Curtains
********
Curtains are unit noise that is generated in only one dimension of an image.

.. autofunction:: imggen.Curtains
.. autofunction:: imggen.CosineCurtains


Perlin Noise
************
Perlin noise is a specific type of unit noise that uses procedures developed
by Ken Perlin to provide a more naturalistic look to computer generated
images.

.. autofunction:: imggen.Perlin


Maze
****
A pseudorandomly generated maze.

.. autofunction:: imggen.Maze
.. autofunction:: imggen.AnimatedMaze
.. autofunction:: imggen.SolvedMaze



Octave Noise
************
Octave noise creates more intricate patterns by adding together multiple
layers of unit noise.

.. autofunction:: imggen.OctaveCosineCurtains
.. autofunction:: imggen.OctaveCurtains
.. autofunction:: imggen.OctavePerlin
.. autofunction:: imggen.OctaveUnitNoise


Worley Noise
------------
Worley noise scatters a series of points across the image space. Image
data is generated based on the distance from a pixel to the nearest point.

.. autofunction:: imggen.Worley
.. autofunction:: imggen.OctaveWorley


Useful Types
============
The following types are available to make it easier type code that uses
:mod:`imggen`.

*   :class:`imggen.ImgAry`: A :class:`numpy.ndarray` of floating point
    image data generated by the :meth:`Source.fill` method of any
    :class:`imggen.Source`.
*   :class:`imggen.Loc`: A :class:`typing.Sequence` object that contains
    three :class:`int` objects used to identify a position within a three
    dimensional image space.
*   :class:`imggen.Size`: A :class:`typing.Sequence` object that contains
    three :class:`int` objects used to identify the dimensions of a three
    dimensional image space.
